---
title: QRNG providers
sidebarHeader: Explore
sidebarSubHeader:
pageHeader: Explore → QRNG
path: /explore/qrng/Use.html
outline: deep
tags:
  - qrng
  - anu
  - random
---

<PageHeader/>

<SearchHighlight/>

<FlexStartTag/>

# First-party entropy

API3 QRNG is a public utility API3 provides on behalf of well-established,
prestigious organizations who have invested a significant amount of resources to
be able to provide this kind of a service. These are the properties that qualify
API providers to be the ideal first-party oracle service providers.

After deploying an [Airnode](/explore/airnode/how-does-airnode-work.md) that is
hosted by the API Provider developers can then access QRNG. It utilizes the
request-response protocol to serve data on-chain, serving data as the API3 QRNG
requester is called from a dApp. There are currently a handful of QRNG
providers, with the ability for this number to expand in the future.

There are currently three data providers within API3 QRNG.

### Australian National University (ANU) Quantum Random Numbers API

[Australian National University](https://www.anu.edu.au/) is one of the leading
research universities in Australia, and also the provider of the well-known and
widely used [Quantum Random Numbers API](https://quantumnumbers.anu.edu.au/),
which is powered by novel research done by the ANU quantum optics group as
described below:

> The random numbers are generated in real-time in our lab by measuring the
> quantum fluctuations of the vacuum. The vacuum is described very differently
> in the quantum physics and classical physics. In classical physics, a vacuum
> is considered as a space that is empty of matter or photons. Quantum physics
> however says that that same space resembles a sea of virtual particles
> appearing and disappearing all the time. This is because the vacuum still
> possesses a zero-point energy. Consequently, the electromagnetic field of the
> vacuum exhibits random fluctuations in phase and amplitude at all frequencies.
> By carefully measuring these fluctuations, we are able to generate ultra-high
> bandwidth random numbers. <br/><br/> The technical details on how the random
> numbers are generated can be found in
> [Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 231103 (2011)](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.3597793)
> and
> [Phys. Rev. Applied 3, 054004 (2015)](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevApplied.3.054004).

### Quintessence

In a world where data is too important to be compromised, QuintessenceLabs
delivers powerful data protection, enhanced by the quantum power of
nature.QuintessenceLabs uses quantum tunneling to deliver truly random numbers
at 1Gbit/sec, with flexible form factors and compelling costs, to enable
practical, large-scale security and other applications.

### Quantum Blockchains

The Quantum Blockchains Entropy API allows for the delivery of streams of
high-entropy random numbers generated by three independent QRNG devices and one
TRNG device – all made available by Quantum Blockchains, QNU Labs, SeQure, and
RealRandom. It is the first Entropy-as-a-Service solution integrating multiple
entropy sources into a single API.

## Accessing QRNG providers

Head to the [QRNG reference section](docs/reference/qrng/chains.md) to find the
addresses you need to read QRNG. Here you will see the data providers relevant
oracle ID.
